# PetStoreAPIAutomation
# PetStore Swagger API Automation Framework

This project is an automation framework built using Rest Assured in Java for testing the [PetStore Swagger API](https://petstore.swagger.io/). It includes various features and tools for API testing and reporting.

## Table of Contents
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Test Data](#test-data)
- [Logging](#logging)
- [Reporting](#reporting)
- [plugins](#remoteexecution)

## Project Structure
The project is organized as follows:

- `src/main/java`: Contains the framework code.
  - `endpoints`: Package to store API endpoints and request specifications.
  - `models`: Package to define POJO classes for API responses.
- `src/test/java`: Contains the test cases.
- `src/test/resources`: Contains test data in JSON format.
- `config`: Configuration files and constants.
- `logs`: Log files generated during test execution.
- `reports`: Test execution reports generated by Extent Reports.
- `utils`: Utility classes and methods.

## Setup
1. Clone this repository:

   ```shell
   git clone <repository-url>

Install the required dependencies, including Rest Assured, Log4j, Extent Reports, and Faker library.

Set up your test environment and ensure that Java and Maven are installed.

## Usage
Define API endpoints and request specifications in the endpoints package.

Create test cases in the src/test/java directory using Rest Assured.

Use Faker library and test data from JSON files located in src/test/resources.

Execute tests using Maven:

 ```shell
  mvn clean test
```
## Test Data
Test data is stored in JSON format in the src/test/resources directory. You can customize this data as needed for your test scenarios.

## Logging
Logging is implemented using Log4j. Log files can be found in the logs directory. Adjust the log levels and configurations in the log4j.properties file.

## Reporting
Test execution reports are generated using Extent Reports and can be found in the reports directory. Open the HTML report to view detailed test results.

## plugins
To enable remote execution of your Rest Assured framework using Maven, you can use plugins like Surefire or Failsafe to run your tests
Surefire Plugin: The Surefire plugin is commonly used for running unit tests. You can configure it to run your Rest Assured tests as well.

Add the Surefire plugin configuration to your pom.xml file:

<build>
    <plugins>
        <!-- ... Other plugins ... -->
        
        <plugin>
            <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
            <artifactId>maven-surefire-plugin</artifactId>
            <version>3.0.0-M5</version> <!-- Adjust the version as needed -->
            <configuration>
                <suiteXmlFiles>
                    <suiteXmlFile>src/test/resources/testng.xml</suiteXmlFile>
                </suiteXmlFiles>
            </configuration>
        </plugin>
    </plugins>
</build>



